ID	Title	Authors	Year	Type	Source	Key	Design Element	Conceptual	Scientific	Projectual	Outcome	Source Title
1	A digital game for international students' adjustment	Bisadi M.; Chua A.Y.K.; Keong L.C.	2013	Conference	Scopus	Bisadi2013	Game Features	Discusses the principles of fun in digital games	Presents and runs an evaluation of game features	Game features generate fun		Proceedings of the International Conference e-Learning 2013
2	A generic approach to challenge modeling for the procedural creation of video game levels	Sorenson N.; Pasquier P.; DiPaola S.	2011	Conference	Scopus	Sorenson2011	Level Design 	Characterizes and discusses fun	Presents, discusses and runs experiments related to level design	Presents an automatic method to create fun level design		IEEE Transactions on Computational Intelligence and AI in Games
3	Anatgsing fun as a candidate software requirement	Draper S.W.	1999	Article	Scopus	Draper1999	Design; User Interface	Presents a conceptual analysis of fun			States that fun is play for pleasure	Personal and Ubiquitous Computing
4	CREATING EVALUATION PROFILES FOR GAMES DESIGNED TO BE FUN: An Interpretive Framework for Serious Game Mechanics	Ulrich F.; Helms N.H.	2017	Article	Scopus	Ulrich2017	Mechanics		Presents a questionnaire in which several questions relate to fun	Mechanics generate fun		Simulation and Gaming
5	Design and evaluation of a computer game to promote a healthy diet for young adults	Peng W.	2009	Article	Scopus	Peng2009	Competition; Challenge; Narrative; Experimentation; Humor; 	Comments on fun and its relation to intrinsic motivation	Presents and runs an evaluation of game elements		States that fun is a significant contributor to the effectiveness of the game	Health Communication
6	Digital games in non-formal and informal learning practices for science learning: A case study	Voulgari I.; Yannakakis G.N.	2019	Conference	Scopus	Voulgari2019	NE	Discusses fun, engagement and playfulness	Presents quantitative and qualitative studies			Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics)
7	Dungeon digger: Apprenticeship learning for procedural dungeon building agents	Sheffield E.C.; Shah M.D.	2018	Conference	Scopus	Sheffield2018	Level Design	Defines fun directly	Evaluates fun in a game	Relates fun with level design		CHI PLAY 2018 - Proceedings of the 2018 Annual Symposium on Computer-Human Interaction in Play Companion Extended Abstracts
8	Ease of Use or Fun Perception? Factors Affecting Retention of Newly Registered Mobile Game Players Based on Flow Theory and The Technology Acceptance Model	Zhan Y.; Qiu Z.; Li X.; Zhao Z.	2024	Article	Scopus	Zhan2024	Ease of use		Runs an experiment comparing usability with perceived fun	Relates ease of use with perceived fun		Journal of Internet Technology
9	Emotional Exploration and the Eudaimonic Gameplay Experience: A Grounded Theory	Cole T.; Gillies M.	2022	Conference	Scopus	Cole2022	Player Experience	Relates hedonic experiences with fun	Runs interviews			Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - Proceedings
10	EVE's entropy: A formal gauge of fun in games	Burns K.	2007	Article	Scopus	Burns2007	Probability	Discusses fun	Presents a mathematical method to measure fun			Studies in Computational Intelligence
11	Exploring the Impact of Ambient and Character Sounds on Player Experience in Video Games	Haehn L.; Schlittmeier S.J.; Böffel C.	2024	Article	Scopus	Haehn2024	Sound		Presents an experiment to evaluate fun in a game and relates it to sound	Sound alters the perception of fun		Applied Sciences (Switzerland)
12	Flow theory, evolution & creativity: Or, 'fun & games'	Velikovsky J.	2014	Conference	Scopus	Velikovsky2014	Story	Comments on fun and relates it to flow				ACM International Conference Proceeding Series
13	Fun pledge: A funny platformers levels generator	Maggiorini D.; Mannalà M.; Ornaghi M.; Ripamonti L.A.	2015	Conference	Scopus	Maggiorini2015	Level	Comments on fun and relates it to playability	Presents an automatic level generator and evaluates the fun of those levels	Generator of fun levels		ACM International Conference Proceeding Series
14	Game reward systems: Gaming experiences and social meanings	Wang H.; Sun C.-T.	2011	Conference	Scopus	Wang2011	Reward Mechanism	Comments on fun and its relation to pleasure and motivation		Reward mechanisms are related to fun		Proceedings of DiGRA 2011 Conference: Think Design Play
15	Just Fun and Games? A Sociological Consideration of Fun in Video Games	Crawford G.; Brock T.	2024	Article	Scopus	Crawford2024	Game design; Inovative Gameplay; Narrative;	Discusses what fun is and theorizes based on three different authors			Comments on outcomes of fun	Games and Culture
16	Moving beyond fun: Evaluating serious experience in digital game	Iacovides I.; Cox A.L.	2015	Conference	Scopus	Iacovides2015	Serious Experience; Narrative	Discusses games that are not exactly fun	Analyzes games with uncomfortable experiences and concludes that the game did not have fun	Certain experiences may not generate fun		Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - Proceedings
17	Players' Value Structure in Digital Games	Lin Y.-L.; Lin H.-W.; Yang Y.-T.	2017	Article	Scopus	Lin2017	Graphic design	Relates fun with values	Runs an experiment on several elements in which fun is one among thirty five values	Comments that graphic design generates fun		Games and Culture
18	Pleasures in Games: Conceptual Analysis of Fun and Its Constructs	Dhamelia M.; Dalvi G.	2022	Conference	Scopus	Dhamelia2022	Constructs	Discusses fun and relates it to various experiences				Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics)
19	Problems in simulating social reality: Observations on a MUD construction	Lin H.; Sun C.	2003	Article	Scopus	Lin2003	Simulation	Briefly comments on fun		Comments on competition, equality and random luck		Simulation and Gaming
20	Quest Design for Instructional Third-person 3D Virtual Worlds: Blending Two-different Conceptual Systems	Flor N.V.	2015	Conference	Scopus	Flor2015	Character; Goals; Actions;	Briefly comments on fun and relates it to avatar tool goal		Presents a comparison between the variables avatar tool goal action across two games		Procedia Manufacturing
21	Serious games continuum: Between games for purpose and experiential environments for purpose	Marsh T.	2011	Article	Scopus	Marsh2011	Experience	Presents and discusses a continuum of serious games				Entertainment Computing
22	The effect of leaderboard ranking on players' perception of gaming fun	Butler C.	2013	Conference	Scopus	Butler2013	Leaderboard	Discusses fun	Runs an analysis and identifies key points and relates them to fun	Relates fun with certain design elements	Relates intention to play again and likeliness with fun	Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics)
23	The evolution of fun: Automatic level design through challenge modeling	Sorenson N.; Pasquier P.	2010	Conference	Scopus	Sorenson2010	Level Design	Comments on fun and relates it to the taxonomies of Hunicke, LeBlanc and Zubek		Relates fun with level design and rhythm groups		Proceedings of the International Conference on Computational Creativity, ICCC-10
24	The Pursuit of Fun in Digital Games: From the Sandpit to the Console and Beyond	Tondorf D.F.; Hounsell M.S.	2023	Conference	Scopus	Tondorf2023	Technological Capability; Game Design, Aesthetic Presentation, Entertainment Game Experience and Narrativity. Mechanics, dynamics, technology, aesthetics and narrative. Excessive Components;  Challenges; Rewards; Control Schemes; Player actions; Object Manipulations; 	Discusses fun from several perspectives	Presents ways to measure fun	Presents several points related to game design	Comments on possible outcomes of fun	Communications in Computer and Information Science
25	Toward a causal model for automatic game balancing	Moffett J.; Rich C.; Beck J.	2009	Conference	Scopus	Moffett2009	Game Metrics; Perceived Fairness; Avatar; NPC; Environment;	Comments on fun using the EVE model	Runs an experiment that compares performance with fun	The performance of the NPC can influence fun		Proceedings of CGAMES 2009 USA - 14th International Conference on Computer Games: AI, Animation, Mobile, Interactive Multimedia, Educational and Serious Games
26	Toward the construction of fun computer games: Differences in the views of developers and players	Choi D.; Kim H.; Kim J.	1999	Article	Scopus	Choi1999	Game mechanic; Game Interface;	Comments on fun	Presents an AHP model of fun and runs an experiment using this AHP to evaluate the importance of each pair of factors	The factors present elements that can be created in game design		Personal and Ubiquitous Computing
27	Which Motives are Predictors for Long-term Use of Exergames?	Adam C.; Senner V.	2016	Conference	Scopus	Adam2016	NE		Runs an experiment to compare high scores, fun and long term motivation	High scores impact fun	Relates fun with long term motivation	Procedia Engineering
28	Why not have fun while learning: Using programming games in software programming education	Long J.	2006	Conference	Scopus	Long2006	Learning	Discusses why the game was fun	Runs an experiment analyzing a game			Proceedings of the Information Systems Education Conference, ISECON
29	Assessing the Fun Experience with FunQ	G. Tisza	2021	Conference	IEEE	Tisza2021	Challenge	Defines fun	Presents a tool to assess fun named FUNQ			International Fall Conference on Computer and Information Science (ICIS Fall)
30	Development of a Multiplication Game for Primary Students to Improve Learning Experience	G. Kamaruddin; Y. Widyani; S. A. Rukmono	2022	Conference	IEEE	Kamaruddin2022	NE	Characterizes fun	Runs an experiment to evaluate fun in a game			International Conference on Data and Software Engineering (ICoDSE)
31	Does team size matter in mobile learning?	G. Schwabe; C. Goth; D. Frohberg	2005	Conference	IEEE	Schwabe2005	Experience		Runs an experiment to analyze fun as a function of the number of players			International Conference on Mobile Business (ICMB'05)
32	Experience-Driven PCG via Reinforcement Learning: A Super Mario Bros Study	T. Shu; J. Liu; G. N. Yannakakis	2021	Conference	IEEE	Shu2021	Level Generation	Quantifies fun according to Koster’s view		Generates levels based on parameters related to fun		IEEE Conference on Games (CoG)
33	How Much Control Is Enough? Influence of Unreliable Input on User Experience	B. van de Laar; D. P. -O. Bos; B. Reuderink; M. Poel; A. Nijholt	2013	Journal	IEEE	vandeLaar2013	Control		Analyzes and compares player control and fun	Control influences fun		IEEE Transactions on Cybernetics
34	Measuring flow as concept for detecting game fun in the Pac-Man game	N. Beume; H. Danielsiek; C. Eichhorn; B. Naujoks; M. Preuss; K. Stiller; S. Wessing	2008	Conference	IEEE	Beume2008	Ai Enemies; Challenge; Fantasy; Curiosity; Difficulty	Defines fun according to Mihályi’s view (Flow) and Malone’s view (challenge, fantasy and curiosity)	Analyzes the relationship between Flow and Fun and examines whether it is possible to measure fun using the Y H formula			IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation (IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence)
35	Visualization and Interaction in Immersive Virtual Reality Games: A User Evaluation Study	D. C. Rachevsky; V. C. d. Souza; L. Nedel	2018	Conference	IEEE	Rachevsky2018	Presence;		Runs an experiment analyzing one version with immersion and one version without immersion	Greater sense of presence produces greater fun		Symposium on Virtual and Augmented Reality (SVR)
36	Constructing a Player-Centred Definition of Fun for Video Games Design	Stephen Boyd Davis	2004	Conference	SB1	Davis2005	Challenge; Fantasy; Curiosity	Discusses the aspects of fun	Runs an experiment to analyze the definition of fun			People and Computers XVIII — Design for Life
37	Feature Selection for Capturing the Experience of Fun	Georgios N. Yannakakis and John Hallam	2007	Conference	SB1	Yannakakis2007	NE		Discusses ways to evaluate fun			AAAI Workshop
38	No Fun: The Queer Potential of Video Games that Annoy, Anger, Disappoint, Sadden, and Hurt	Bonnie Ruberg	2015	Journal 	SB1	Ruberg2015	NE	Discusses fun and no fun with a focus on Queer perspectives				QED
39	Designing for exertion How heart rate power ups increase physical activity in exergames.	Ketcheson, M., Ye, Z., & Graham, T. C. 	2015		SB1	Ketcheson2015	Physical Exertion		Runs an experiment with games that require player physical exercise to activate power ups	Relates physical exercise with fun		Proceedings of the 2015 Annual Symposium on Computer-Human Interaction in Play
40	Evaluating a Serious Game for Math: Is it Useful and Fun?	Tondorf, D.F.; Hounsell, M.S.; Pereira, V.A.	2025		Scopus	Tondorf2025	NE		Runs an experiment comparing utility with fun		Comments on outcomes of fun and also on search for the game	Journal on Interactive Systems
41	Fun and learning The power of narrative.	Marsh, T., Xuejin, C., Nickole, L. Z., Osterweil, S., Klopfer, E., & Haas, J. 	2011		SB1	Marsh2011b	Narrative		Runs an experiment with four versions of a game that have decreasing narrative elements	Narrative influences fun		Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Foundations of Digital Games
42	Serious game design Motivating students through a balance of fun and learning.	Franzwa, C., Tang, Y., & Johnson, A. 	2013		SB1	Franzwa2013	Narrative, Feedback, Guidance		Compares the game with studying using a textbook	Explains the elements and how they were applied in the game		International Conference on Games and Virtual Worlds for Serious Applications (VS-GAMES)
43	Towards Game Design Elements on the Perception of a Fun Game: An Exergame Case Study	Tondorf, D.F.; Pereira, V.A.; Hounsell, M.S.; Petrillo, F.	2025		Scopus	Tondorf2025b	Control Device, Control Movement, Immersion, Unpredictability, Narrative, Aesthetics, Feedback		Runs an experiment analyzing fun in design elements	Comments on design aimed at fun	Comments on outcomes of fun	Lecture Notes in Computer Science (including subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics)
